# Codebook for the result dataset of the Coursera Getting and Cleaning Data Project
## Description of the dataset (taken from the original dataset codebook)
The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 
The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.
## List of variables :
- Subject : the subject number in the experiment from 1 to 30
- Activity : the type of activity recorded
- The rest of the variables : the average value of all mean and standard deviation variables from the original datasets grouped by subject and activity.
## Transformation steps :
1. Set the working directory to the folder of the dataset (the folder named "UCI HAR Dataset")
2. Read the text files into data frames (the text files in the Inertial Signals folders are ignored). This includes the files subject_test.txt, X_test.txt, y_test.txt in the sub-directory test ; subject_train.txt, X_train.txt, y_train.txt in the sub-directory train ; features.txt and activity_labels.txt in the working directory.
3. Rename variable names in the data frames. The name of the only column in the subject data frames is changed to "Subject". The name of the only column in the y data frames is changed to "Activity". The names of the columns in the X data frames are changed according to the name list in the data frame features.
4. Merge the training and the test sets to create one data set. This step merges the test data frames and train data frames first with cbind and then with rbind.
5. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. This step extracts only the variables with mean() or std() in their names using grep (Note : grep also extracts the meanFreq() variables with the provided regular expressions, so they have to be removed). We end up with a vector showing the indices of the columns that we want in the full dataset, along with the first two columns for subject and activity. Then we select only the columns whose indices are in that vector.
6. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set. In this step we mutate the activity column so that its values are now explicit activity names instead of activities number from 1 to 6.
7. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. We only change the occurrences of hyphens ("-") to periods (".") to satisfy the minimum requirements of variable names
8. Creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject. This step groups the dataset by subject and activity and then takes the mean value of every other variable by them using summarize() and across()
9. Write the tidy dataset to a text file called "tidydata.txt"